Occlusion and Malocclusion
Occlusion** refers to the optimal alignment of the upper and lower teeth when the jaws are closed.
This ideal alignment ensures proper function during biting and chewing, as well as contributes to overall oral health.
Malocclusion**, on the other hand, is the term used to describe any misalignment of the teeth.
It can lead to functional issues, discomfort, and aesthetic concerns.
Malocclusion is classified into three main categories:
Class I:** This classification is characterized by normal dental alignment, but there
may be minor issues such as slight spacing or crowding of the
teeth.
Individuals with Class I malocclusion typically do not experience significant functional problems.
Class II:** Often referred to as an overbite, this class occurs when the upper teeth significantly overlap the lower teeth.
This can result in a protruding appearance of the upper front teeth and may
lead to wear on the teeth, jaw pain, or other dental issues if left
untreated.
Class III:** Known as an underbite, Class III malocclusion occurs when the lower teeth protrude beyond the upper teeth.
This misalignment can impact the bite and chewing efficiency, often causing discomfort and influencing facial aesthetics.